docs(blog): independence day (#83)
spokestack/spokestack-website: content/blog/independence-day/independence-day.md

---
title: Today, we export to independence!
date: '2020-06-16'

> description: With Spokestack, your smart speaker skill can declare independence!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: With Spokestack, your voice app can declare independence!
```
I think I'm with Daniel on standardizing around "voice app" (here and elsewhere in the post)—only Alexa apps are "skills", as Google so pedantically reminded me recently.

author: noel
tags: Engineering
draft: true
---

Today, we export to independence!

> ![Today we celebrate our Independence Day!](https://zippy.gfycat.com/UnkemptInsignificantGelding.webm)

Reviewer: Don't think the webm is being processed as an image.

With apologies to President Bill Pullman, let's declare our independence from smart speakers. The voice interface, and the skills you've developed using it, are wonderful resources that are currently stuck in kitchens and dens all over the world. It's time to free them to be carried with your users wherever they are, not wherever Amazon, Google, and Samsung allow them. With Spokestack, your smart speaker skill can declare independence!

## What's independence?

> NLU-capable computers everywhere -- your smart phone, your smart watch, your laptop, your tv -- but nobody is building NLU-enabled apps for them. Smart speakers, on the other hand, are essentially NLU-only voice app platforms. Why do you have to choose between them? With Spokestack, you don't. [Export your smart speaker skill](https://spokestack.io/docs/Concepts/export) to run on the major mobile platforms and declare your independence!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NLU-capable computers are everywhere -- your smartphone, your smartwatch, your laptop, your TV — but nobody is building NLU-enabled apps for them. Smart speakers, on the other hand, are essentially NLU-only voice app platforms. Why do you have to choose between them? With Spokestack, you don't. [Export your smart speaker skill](https://spokestack.io/docs/Concepts/export) to run on the major mobile platforms and declare your independence!
```

> ![Will Smith walks away from smoke](https://gph.is/28Qnphp)

Reviewer: Same here; image link looks broken in preview.

## Why do I want to declare independence?

Unlike smart speakers, independent voice assistants can take advantage of multiple interfaces modalities to allow your users to get the job done using whatever interaction they find convenient. Visual, haptic, and now voice user interfaces are all accessible to mobile apps using Spokestack.

> What do you gain from that? You control and learn from the NLU classification of user utterances, not the smart speaker platform. When you're stuck on a smart speaker, do you get the raw utterance that your user uses when they're in your skill, even misclassified or misunderstood ones? With Spokestack, you control your data and your users data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What do you gain from that? You control and learn from the NLU classification of user utterances, not the smart speaker platform. When you're stuck on a smart speaker, do you get the raw utterance that your user uses when they're in your skill, even misclassified or misunderstood ones? With Spokestack, you control your data and your users' data.
```
You do get the raw utterance with Dialogflow...just not with Alexa unless you do something clever.

If you've ever read the EULA for smart speaker platforms, you know how rapacious they are with your data. With Spokestack, you take private the most useful bits of your data instead of feeding it for free to the [FAANG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Tech).

![Storming the Bastille](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4e/Prise_de_la_Bastille.jpg/800px-Prise_de_la_Bastille.jpg)

## What do I have to do to declare independence?

> You can leverage existing ASR and TTS services, which are the parts that actually benefit from scale and are difficult to DIY. Spokestack provides [a seamless, unified API]() across mobile platforms ([iOS](https://spokestack.io/docs/iOS), [Android](https://spokestack.io/docs/Android), and [React/React Native](https://spokestack.io/docs/React%20Native)) that makes integrating your skill into an app easy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can leverage existing ASR and TTS services, which are the parts that actually benefit from scale and are difficult to DIY. Spokestack provides a seamless, unified API across mobile platforms ([iOS](https://spokestack.io/docs/iOS), [Android](https://spokestack.io/docs/Android), and [React/React Native](https://spokestack.io/docs/React%20Native)) that makes integrating your skill into an app easy.
```
